ember-boilerplate
=================

Starting point for any ember-based project. Simply replace all the `MY_APP` by the name of your app.

Inspired by [Trek's Todos example](https://github.com/trek/ember-todos-with-build-tools-tests-and-other-modern-conveniences).


## Files Hierarchy

### app/
This is where the actual code of your browser application lives. Start reading at `app/app.js` and work your way through.

### dependencies/
The external libraries required to run the application: Ember, Handlebars, jQuery, Boostrap, ...

### test/
Unit tests and support files to run the tests.

### .jshintrc
This project uses [JSHint](http://www.jshint.com/) for [linting](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lint_(software\)) to enforce some coding standards and avoid common programming mistakes (like missing `var` statements causing variables to leak into the global scope). These settings are stored as a dot file so that while developing you can connect the project standards into your editor of choice and when building for deployment this file can be used by the build process and deployment can be stopped if it fails the linting process.

### Gruntfile.js
[Grunt](http://gruntjs.com/) provides the structure to organize tasks for actively developing, testing, and deploying this application. If you want to read more about these, crack open this file - it's also heavily commented.

### karma.conf.js
Karma (test framework) configuration file.

### packages.json
I'm using node locally to aid the development process. Mostly this file is used in development to track development dependencies and allow other developers to quickly set up a development environment to get started.

### README.md
This file.

### index.html
Application markup - Generated by grunt, minified if the 'dist' command is used.

### MY_APP.css
Application styling - Generated by grunt, minified if the 'dist' command is used.

### MY_APP.js
Application code - Generated by grunt, uglified if the 'dist' command is used.


## Install

You will need node installed as a development dependency. See [node's
site](http://nodejs.org/) for help with that.

One you have node installed run

```shell
npm install -g grunt-cli
```

To install the grunt task execution script available `g`lobally. Depending on how you
installed node on your system, you may need to use `sudo` to run this command.

Next, from this project folder run

```shell
npm install
```

This will install the development dependencies listed in the `package.json` file
and store them in locally in `node_modules/`. You won't need `sudo` here.
`node_modules` is not tracked by version control.

Once all the development dependencies are installed you can start the
development tasks with

```shell
grunt
```

Which will build development version of the application and start watching
for any changes. See `Gruntfile.js` for a deeper dive into what happens here.

##### Other targets

```shell
grunt dev
```

This will build the development version of the application and lint all your code.

```shell
grunt dist
```

This will build the distribution version of the application that minifies and uglifies all the files.

```shell
grunt test
```

This will build the development version of the application, lint all your code and run all the tests.


## Test

Coming soon...


## Conventions

##### JavaScript
* Require the use of curly braces around blocks in loops and conditionals.
* Require the use `===` and `!==` in conditional statements.
* Require all non-global variables be declared before they are used.
* Require the use of double quotes.
* Require tabs indentation of 4.
* No trailing whitespace.
* Recommend to put a blank line before a new block (loops or conditionals).

I recommend you install a linter for your text editor, that will parse the `.jshintrc` file and highlight the lines that breaks those conventions.
